From The New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is The Daily.
Over the past few days, what began as a
relentless US-Israeli military assault
on Iran
>> [music]
>> has drawn in at least 14 countries.
From Lebanon I with my family live
[music] in a neighborhood just outside
of Beirut. We are having to wake up in
the middle of the night at 4:00 a.m.
>> [music]
>> or 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. hearing these
missiles and bombs constantly hitting
our neighborhoods and our people. To the
United Arab Emirates
>> [music]
>> We heard some explosions from the
interceptors and that's when we went
with my family to the basement [music]
to get some shelter.
To Saudi Arabia
We were all on the plane. I came from
[music] Saudi Arabia.
Everything was fine to go. They told us
to get off. They said it wasn't safe to
fly cuz of the missiles. So [music] we
all thought we were going to be
stranded. As the conflict has
transformed into a region-wide crisis
and now the impacts of that war are
going global. A major shipping route for
oil has effectively been shut down amid
this war sending shockwaves through the
markets with as the disruption of the
world's oil market spreads from the
Middle [music] East to Europe, Asia, and
North America.
The price of crude oil has risen above
[music] $100 a barrel as the Strait of
Hormuz is effectively closed and Iranian
fuel depots are battered. [music]
Today
Eric Schmitt on what we're learning
about all the players involved in this
conflict from [music] a week of war.
It's Tuesday, March 10th.
Eric, thank you for making time for us.
We appreciate it. Sure, of course.
So, we wanted to speak with you one week
or so into this war about what has been
accomplished or has failed to be
accomplished by all the major
governments involved in this conflict.
And the way I wanted to loosely organize
our conversation was by starting off
with what has been done to Iran by the
US and Israel in the first half of this
episode. And then in a second half, walk
through what Iran in retaliation has
done to the region and the world, if
that makes sense to you. That makes a
lot of sense. Okay. So, with that
blessing,
we will proceed. We know quite well at
this point that the United States'
objectives in this conflict have
whipsawed, starting with
the mission of getting rid of Iran's
nuclear program, then it became outright
regime change, then it was the US being
willing to work with regime insiders to
this latest demand from President Trump
for total regime surrender. So, overall,
a pretty incoherent set of messages.
Given that,
let's focus on what we know has actually
happened on the ground. The targets that
the US and Israel have struck and what
shape that has left the regime in. And I
think we can get pretty detailed and
specific here. So, where do you want to
start? Okay. So, about 10 days into this
military campaign, the Israeli and
American militaries have struck more
than 4,000 targets over this time
period. Yeah. So, this includes,
obviously, the first day strike that
killed the supreme leader, the main
political goal, I think, of Israel and
to some extent the United States. But,
from a military standpoint, of these
4,000 targets, they've really focused
heavily on eliminating Iran's air
defenses. These are the surface-to-air
missiles that could attack American
bombers or Israeli jets, those kind of
things. So, they've gone after that to
give the Israeli and American air forces
freedom of movement in the skies.
>> Mhm. The other big targets include the
ballistic missiles, which actually go up
into space and come back down again.
They arc back down against the
long-range, very fast-moving targets
that cause a lot of damage. The other
main focus has been to strike the
Iranian navy. These are the ships and
boats that can basically interfere with
commerce in the Persian Gulf and
elsewhere. So, the United States
believes that they've sunk much of the
Iranian navy and thus eliminated much of
the threat, at least from their major
navy vessels, of commerce in the region.
Right. Brett, something like 42 Iranian
ships have been sunk. Yeah. The number
keeps increasing because they've been
focusing on that. The threat still
remains from Iran's small boats, but the
main navy strikes has been very
important.
And then lastly, the United States has
tried to go after Iran's formidable
drone program. These are the same drones
that Iran has manufactured and have been
used by the Russians in Ukraine. These
are formidable because as much as the
United States has air defenses against
these and a wide array of things from
jamming to small weapons to actually
counter drone drones, if you will. They
have so many of these drones that the
defenses just can't be everywhere at
once. Mhm. So, how does this all add up
after about 10 days of war from both the
Israeli and the American air forces? The
Pentagon basically believes that they've
reduced the number of missiles being
fired by Iran by about 90% on the first
day. Huh. And the number of drones being
fired by about 83%.
>> Very meaningful. Pretty significant.
But, in confidential briefings to
Congress late last week,
Pentagon officials told lawmakers that
the Iranians still have as much as 50%
of their overall missile fleet still
intact. Now, that's getting hammered
away every day. So, by now it's probably
chipped down a little bit more below
that. But, more important is the drones
are probably even more than that. You
know, they can still manufacture these
drones at this point. They still have
huge stockpiles of these. So, even
though the United States and Israel pose
significant damage on these stockpiles,
the Iranians still have a fair amount
left. And that's the race that we're in
here. And Eric, when you say race, just
help me understand what you mean there.
Race between what? So, the race here,
Michael, is between Iran's ability to
fire off as many of these missiles and
drones as possible to inflict as much
pain as possible. Physical pain,
economic pain, political pain versus the
United States and Israel's ability to
knock out that ability to fight back.
That's the race that's underway. How
quickly can the Iranians fire enough of
this stuff off to really increase the
pain to its maximum point. And how
quickly can the US and Israel suppress
that
Iranian ability?
Got it. And presumably the US has enough
munitions to go longer than Iran.
Well, the munitions has been a key
question because some kinds of munitions
are in shorter supply than others. This
was very important at the beginning of
the war because the United States was
having to use very expensive what they
call standoff weapons. That is expensive
missiles that they can fire from outside
of the range of Iranian air defenses.
We've now shifted into a different phase
of the air campaign with most of these
air defenses destroyed or degraded, the
US now can come in and drop other kinds
of bombs, satellite and laser-guided
bombs that are much more plentiful and
cheaper and that are much greater
stores.
What's in short supply is what's on the
ground, however, the interceptors. These
are specially made missiles that are
meant to protect against those ballistic
missiles and other cruise missiles that
we talked about earlier that Iran is
firing. That's what's in short supply.
The US military says it has enough to
protect its bases, but many of the Gulf
countries
are finding they don't have enough to
protect their own populations and
they're pressing the United States and
other countries to see if they can
provide more on an emergency basis.
A lot of what we've been talking about
so far, Eric, are the military targets
of Iran and the United States.
But there are additional targets that
are a little more ambiguous and I'm
thinking about over the past couple of
days strikes on something like 30
Iranian oil depots.
And I want to understand whether that
should be seen as a military target or
is it more a civilian infrastructure
target and what the rationale is.
Yeah, no, you you put your finger on a
very important point, Michael, because
this has highlighted one of the rare
early divisions in the war between
Israel and the United States. Israel
struck these oil depots because these
are important to fueling the Iranian war
machine. This oil is being used for that
purpose and so they want to take out
that ability to do so. And they warned
the Americans that they were going to do
this and the Americans were okay with
that. What they didn't know was Israel
was going to blow up 30 of these things
and create this horrific image of black
billowing smoke and oil depots blowing
up at a time when oil prices are
spiking. Right.
>> And underscoring one of the big concerns
that President Trump has. And so the
Americans made their objections known
yesterday very clearly and apparently
President Trump was quite upset and made
his objections known. So the Americans
were okay to a point with the Israelis
taking out what they considered military
targets, but they felt Israel overdid it
and basically created a problem not just
a an optics problem for the United
States, but a real economic problem. It
just kind of helps drive up these oil
price concerns.
So, when the targets have been military
in nature,
the US Israeli strategy so far seems
like it has been pretty effective. Where
the targets have veered into more
civilian infrastructure,
there has been conflict and controversy
around it. I'm curious how we should
think overall 10 days in about whether
these US Israel attacks have been
precise, and if this is the right word
to use here,
moral.
Well,
clearly you've got more than a thousand
people killed on the ground in Iran. So,
some of these strikes, they maybe
they've achieved both. Maybe they've
struck a military target, but they've
also killed civilians in the process.
The biggest example of this was a strike
against an Iranian naval base. And next
to the base is an elementary school
where 175
people were killed. Now, this
investigation, which the United States
military says it's conducting and
ongoing, is focused on how did this
happen?
Was this a bomb that went astray? Was
this just bad targeting information that
they had? Because this school actually
several years ago was part of this naval
base.
And then sometime ago, it was split off
and it became an elementary school.
Which the US may not have known.
Exactly. And this sadly has happened
before. They should have known this as
they check these things cuz it's very
clear as they look at the satellite
imagery, they look at other things.
There are school kids out, you know,
running around in fields and things like
that. There's a fence that now separates
the base which was attacked, and this
school which is just, you know, a couple
hundred yards away from it. So, you
know, you could see sadly how this thing
might have happened.
All told, Eric, how many Iranian
civilians have been killed as far as we
know? I believe Iran's envoy to the UN
has said 1,300 Iranian civilians have
been killed. I'm sure all these numbers
will be disputed throughout the
conflict, but do we have a sense of the
number of Iranian civilians killed?
>> Yeah, those are the kind of estimates
that certainly we at The New York Times
are using. The United States has not
come up with a formal estimate yet as to
civilian casualties on the ground. The
military makes a point to say because of
the precision weapons they're using,
they do all they can to avoid putting
civilians at risk and to minimize the
danger of civilian casualties, but you
know, in any kind of war, any kind of
conflict, this is going to happen.
If this was a mistake,
is it a war crime? Or if it's a mistake,
it's just a mistake? Sadly, it's more
probably in the category of it's a
mistake. A war crime would be something
that we obviously deliberate, some kind
of target that you knew had in this case
women and children, and that would be
something much more serious. I think in
this case, at least if it's similar to
the cases of civilian casualties and
incidents that I've reported on the past
in other conflict zones, it's somebody
screwed up.
So, despite all of the damage that the
US and Israel have inflicted,
primarily on Iran's military and the
government,
what seems very clear at this moment is
that the onslaught has failed to topple
the regime. One of [clears throat] the
stated goals of this mission, even
though it has changed many times, was to
topple the regime, and yet a new supreme
leader has been appointed, and it does
not appear that the regime is in any
great jeopardy of collapsing, correct?
That's right. And in fact, not only
that, but it looks like
the United States knew this, or at least
the intelligence services of the United
States knew this even going into this
fight. Mhm. Because they basically
assessed going into this war that any
kind of military operation short of some
kind of land invasion, which has never
been envisioned here, but any kind of
major air campaign like we're seeing now
would fail to dislodge the theocracy
that runs Iran today. It's just too
entrenched. They've thought about this
for years and years of how to survive.
And they expected this kind of attack,
and at that day has come now, and now
we're kind of seeing the strategy that
they have been thinking about for
decades.
Just to be clear, you're saying that the
United States assessed that the campaign
that it's now waging against Iran was
unlikely to do the thing that we have
articulated as our goal for this
conflict.
>> That's right. In a confidential
assessment by the National Intelligence
Council, which is a combination of the
various intelligence agencies, that was
their assessment going into this war.
>> Mhm. And there are basically no examples
going through recent certainly recent
military history of an air campaign
alone toppling a government.
>> Mhm. You almost have to have, you know,
some type of force that goes in on the
ground, or you have to stir the
population itself to take up arms and
throw off whatever's left of the former
government such as it is, but by itself,
this assessment concluded, it's not
going to get rid of this government that
the president said he wanted to do.
Fascinating.
Eric, to the point of that assessment
and its determination that the regime
would be very hard to topple,
what should we make of the choice of a
new supreme leader, the son of the
previous Ayatollah? Is there any reason
to think that he's going to change the
direction of the regime? What do we
know? In one word, no. Mojtaba Khamenei
is a hardliner, perhaps even more so
than his father. He's very close to the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which
is the parallel security structure that
operates in Iran, and it shows the
influence that the IRGC, this
Revolutionary Guard Corps, still has not
only on the military level as they
continue to fire the missiles and drones
we talked about, but also at the
political level in choosing the next
ruler here.
And if anything, this is the most
defiant choice that the Iranians could
have come up with. This is a ruler that
the president and other American
officials have said they
don't think they don't have a lot of
confidence they can work with. They had
other people in mind who obviously
wouldn't necessarily be compliant with
everything, but they thought they might
be more pragmatic that could work with
the United States and work with the
West. Right, but others who turned out
died. Yeah, they either died or they got
sidelined. But this was a kind of a
model that the United States and the
Trump administration thought they could
adopt from Venezuela, where they
obviously
you know, went in and seized the
dictator, Nicolas Maduro, and installed
his vice president, Delcy Rodriguez,
who's been so far working very closely
with the Trump administration there.
Now, Iran is a very different place than
Venezuela, and the regime, you know,
much more entrenched in both the
political, military, and economic
interests of the country. So, it may
have been misguided to think along these
lines, but that seems to be what had
influenced the administration as it
thought about these things. Now, the
Iranians have come back and again, the
most hardline kind of defiant choice
that you could have picked.
So, this appointment, along with what
you described as the regime's remaining
munitions, which are meaningful,
should deepen our sense of the regime's
permanence or its unlikeliness to
fall. That just does not seem very
plausible at the moment. Yeah, I would
use the word resilience rather than
permanence cuz you never know, but this
shows the resilience of this regime even
in its battered state that so long as it
can hold on, it wins. That's basically
what it amounts to for them. And at this
stage, it seems less and less likely
that the Iranian people are going to be
rising up. And no doubt things like the
strike on the elementary school and the
strike on these oil depots, those may
not inspire the Iranian civilian
population to see
the US or or Israel especially as their
allies or their liberators.
I think that's right and you certainly
haven't seen as President Trump urged,
you haven't seen protesters rise up
against this government.
>> [music]
>> You haven't seen military officials
defect as he called on them to do.
You haven't seen any signs of rebellion
or insurgencies in any part of the
country that would divert Iranian
attention.
I think what you've seen, as you said,
on the contrary, other incidents that
might actually galvanize the regime's
supporters and now they'll rally behind
this new younger leader for the fight as
long as it takes against the United
States and Israel. [music]
Okay, well Eric, when we come back,
we're going to talk about the pain that
Iran has inflicted across the region and
in a very real sense across the world in
its response.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
So, Eric, help us understand Iran's
military response so far, which has
wreaked all kind of havoc, as we've
hinted at across the region and the
world because of spiking oil prices.
And I'd say to the untrained eye, some
elements of Iran's retaliation seemed
carefully planned, others seemed like
wildfire firing in every possible
direction. That's right. I think this is
all part of their strategy to focus
first of all on unleashing its arsenal
of missiles and drones and any other
weaponry first and foremost at the
United States bases around the region,
all within missile range of Iran, as is
Israel. You're also seeing Iran wanting
to widen this conflict, internationalize
this conflict, to inflict as much pain
on as many actors as possible. That's
why you're seeing not only strikes
against American military bases in these
countries, but against civilian
infrastructure across the Gulf region,
for instance, in the United Arab
Emirates, in Kuwait, in Qatar, in
Bahrain. You're seeing attacks on oil
infrastructure. You're seeing attacks on
airports. You're seeing attacks on
hotels. Mhm. You're seeing a wide range
of strikes to as far away as striking
the island of Cyprus and missile strike
launched toward Turkey, a NATO ally,
that was knocked down. The idea here
that the Iranians have is to inflict as
much pain, to bring as much pressure on
the United States and Israel to wrap up
this campaign as quickly as possible.
Well, just explain
the idea that these seemingly at times
indiscriminate, but obviously sometimes
not at all indiscriminate, targeting of
embassies, consulates, office buildings,
high-rises across the whole region, how
that brings pressure to bear on the
United States to end the war.
Well, in a very concrete way, you look
at the example of the drone strike on
the port in Kuwait on March 1st that
killed six US service members and
wounded several others.
Now you've got Americans coming back in
caskets, where the president over the
weekend had greeted the remains at Dover
Air Force Base. Right.
>> So, a very somber scene there of
American casualties once again coming
out of the Middle East. But you also
see, as you said, in this kind of
scattershot approach,
wanting to create as much economic and
political uncertainty as possible.
You have countries in the region
shutting down their airports because you
basically can't guarantee the safety of
commercial air traffic.
>> Mhm. You have oil tankers and other
commercial tankers holding up inside and
outside the Strait of Hormuz, this
narrow stretch of water that's a key
gateway in and out of the Persian Gulf
for all this commerce. So, you have the
actual physical pain of casualties, you
have the economic pain, and you're now
forcing the hand of these various
governments in the Gulf to do something.
They've wanted to stay on the sidelines
for the most part, publicly saying they
do not want a war in their region, they
would much rather have a diplomatic
solution, but now their countries and
their populations are coming under
attack. And it's not just the Gulf
countries, it's countries in Europe who
have sizeable populations in the region.
France, England, these kind of countries
which had said they would not
participate any kind of offensive action
against Iran are now in the position of
having to help protect their civilians
that are living in these countries. So,
the strategy, quite clearly you're
saying, is for Iran to, in a very real
sense, drag as many countries as
possible into the conflict, even drag
Europe into the conflict, so that all
these countries are placing phone calls
or communiques to Washington and saying
to President Trump, "Let's be honest,
you're the one who can pull the plug
here. And so, given all the pain that
we're experiencing here, we're asking
you to do that. Wrap this up." Is it
working as a strategy? Well, the
Iranians have a code name for this. They
call it Operation Mad Man. Well, who's
the mad man in that? They try to present
themselves as a mad man and basically
saying, "You've got to do something
here." Now, there are analysts who are
saying this is actually backfiring on
the regime in Tehran, because look
what's happened. You have all these
countries that were originally sitting
on the sidelines, and now very
reluctantly, they're basically saying,
"Okay, we're not only going to allow
American planes to use our bases in a
broader sense." In the case of Britain,
which had very briefly denied US access
to planes, Right.
>> but they're basically coming in saying,
"Okay, we're going to bring more forces
in and if need be, we may actually
attack Iran." There's some reports that
some of the Gulf nations are considering
taking strikes of their own Right.
>> to basically show their domestic
populations, "We're going to stand up
for you and protect you." Well, you're
say the flip side of regionalizing the
war, the Iranian strategy, is that the
region might bring the war right back to
Iran. But, I do want to fact check you
for a minute on this.
To what extent are the Gulf countries,
I'm thinking of the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain,
or Europe for that matter,
are defined allies
in a military sense? Are they actually
joining the offensive effort rather than
just defending their interests? No, and
it's a good point. But, rather than
sitting on the side and sitting on their
hands and being neutral, they're now
weighing in at least in a defensive way
and bringing defensive assets, air
defenses, other planes and ships that
can help protect their forces. This
takes some of the burden off the United
States and Israel to do some of the
same. If you have these kind of allies
bringing their troops and assets into
the region to do what was up until at
least a few days ago was left solely up
to the United States and Israel to do
for themselves. Eric, in the first half
of our conversation you brought up the
metaphor of a race. Race between the
munitions that Iran has left to fight
back and that the US Israel have to
degrade Iran's military. It seems like
there's a second race happening here,
which is the region's tolerance for pain
and its intolerance for pain and
therefore its determination to
collectively enter the war and perhaps
make Iran's life really miserable. And
it feels like a huge pain point in this
second race
is oil.
It is. You have obviously the physical
pain of your civilians being under
attack. But as you just point out,
economically now as oil prices are
driven up by this tremendous attack and
this all this uncertainty, now all these
costs are suddenly being passed along to
countries in the region and their
populations. And suddenly prices are
going to be skyrocketing globally. So
here again, how much pain now can the
United States and Israel along with
their nominal allies in this, how long
can they take? How much will they
accept? So if the point is to apply
pressure to President Trump, we're
seeing it right now this week. And as we
see oil prices skyrocketing above $100 a
barrel and the Pentagon talking about
this lasting for weeks before they
achieve their military objectives, this
suddenly is starting to feel very
painful for American consumers who are
already concerned about inflationary
effects in this country. And it's worth
noting that Iranian leaders are talking
about this openly. They are saying, "If
you think oil prices are high now
because of this war, you just wait and
see. They're going to go higher and
higher." And they're almost goading
President Trump at this point on the
subject of oil. That's right. They're
almost daring him to continue these
attacks. And if it means four and
five-dollar a gallon price at the pump
for American citizens, all the better
for the Iranian government.
One thing we haven't yet touched on,
Eric, is whether Iran has any allies in
this conflict. Iran is one of the
loneliest countries, frankly, in the
world. But it has long maintained a
strong relationship with Russia. And
Russia has been kind of happy to
advertise the fact that it's working
with Iran in this conflict. But how
meaningful is that help? And how
meaningful a threat is it to the US, to
Israel, and their allies in the region?
Well, we saw some reporting last week,
for instance, that the Russians are
providing intelligence to the Iranians,
targeting intelligence to let them know
the location of American vessels and
troops in the region. Now,
Russia has provided information like
this and intelligence like this for the
Iranians for many years. Obviously,
being in a war makes it a little bit
different. But the military and
intelligence officials I talked to,
while generally concerned overall about
this, their hair wasn't on fire about
this. This wasn't going to change the
nature of the war. And the fact that the
Iranians are under such pressure also
made it unlikely they'd be able to
utilize this Russian intelligence
uh in any way. Mhm. But Russia is
turning out to be one of the great
beneficiaries of this war. Vladimir
Putin is sitting fat and happy in Moscow
watching that global price of oil go up.
And for Russian oil, that means more
money in his coffers
as he spreads it around. Well, and
perhaps more money for the Russian war
in Ukraine. So, quite perversely, if
you're the United States,
this war may subsidize Russia's war in
Ukraine. That's right. And then as you
mentioned Ukraine, this is also going to
put more pressure on not only the United
States, but European governments who are
supplying weapons to Ukraine. Some of
the very weapons that they're now going
to want to hold on to to be able to use
in the Gulf. Some of these interceptors
for instance against missiles, which
Russia has used so lethally against
Ukrainian cities in the last several
weeks and months. So, Russia is coming
out looking like a winner in this war so
far.
Right. Wars have many unintended
consequences. So, here's where we are a
week or so into this war. The regime
isn't going anywhere. Trump wants a
total surrender.
And that seems to be a conflict that's
not going to be resolved anytime soon,
those two poles. And so, unless the
madman strategy that Iran has laid out
inflicts so much pain that the president
pulls the plug on this operation, we are
looking at a conflict that is probably
going to be lasting many, many more
weeks. Well, it could. You're dealing
with a very mercurial president, Mr.
Trump. He could decide and declare
tomorrow, although it doesn't look very
likely, that he has achieved his war
goals. This is what Israel's actually
very concerned about, that Trump,
because of these domestic pressures,
because of the pressures coming from
regional allies, will cut the war short
of where the Israeli military wants to
be in terms of degrading and destroying
Iran's capability, and its missile
capability, and also the remnants of its
nuclear program. So, again, we're back
to this concept of a race here. How much
pressure can the Iranians stand? How
much pressure can the Americans, and
specifically the Trump administration,
stand at this point? But, the costs on
both sides are going to be going up.
Mhm.
I don't want to end Eric by summoning
your experience covering so many
wars over the past 30 or something
years, including the first war in Iraq,
the second war in Iraq, the war in
Afghanistan, to name a few. And these
conflicts range from very limited wars,
wars that take a week or two, have very
clear goals, to the forever wars with
much muddier objectives and stunningly
long time horizons.
So far, if this doesn't seem like an
unfair question, where does this 7-8 day
long war so far stand all alongside
those conflicts you've covered?
I think I go back to the first war I
covered, the first Gulf War in 1991,
where the air campaign lasted about 44
days. That's roughly 6 weeks or so. And
that was the precursor to a land
invasion. What we are not seeing here,
however, is any sign of a major ground
force that would go in. Yes, the
president has talked about possibly
sending in some special operations
commandos to deal with certain targets,
including the remnants of the nuclear
program, but we're not seeing the
marshaling of vast armies ready to go on
and take over this country, uh 90
million people, a much more challenging
task, almost impossible to think of from
the commanders I talked to. So, I think
it's probably airing more on the side
right now of a limited air war, limited
in the sense of maybe weeks rather than
months, but it's very hard to tell. With
most of these wars, the United States
has gotten into them, uh not always with
the clearest objectives or not
understanding the dynamics on the ground
and how they can shift underneath you
and change the dynamics. That's
certainly what happened with George W.
Bush in Iraq. And if you remember, he
declared a mission accomplished very
quickly.
>> Right. And before you know it, we're a
decade into a campaign. It cost many
lives and a nearly a trillion dollars in
American treasure. Mhm. But I think what
strikes me most, having covering
conflicts over the last nearly four
decades, is this president feels so
emboldened to use the American military
in a way to solve foreign policy
conflicts. It's much different, I think,
than any of his predecessors. He's
coming off of a high of last June of
striking, in a limited strike, against
Iran's three major nuclear facilities, a
very successful but very limited
mission.
The second key accomplishment he's made
in a military sense is, again, the
capture of Venezuelan President Nicolas
Maduro. Now, the Venezuela story still
has a lot to play out, but I think those
conflicts and some other smaller ones
that he's engaged in around the world
has really emboldened the president to
think he can take on pretty much any
conflict and the military has come
through for him in a successful way,
made him look good, made the American
military look good, and it's led him to
talk about the military in these kind of
World War II
ways that he talks, this bravado that he
and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth like
to talk about things. Maximum lethality,
not tepid legality,
violent effect, not politically correct.
We're going to raise up warriors. He
seems to revel in the violence of war to
extent I've never heard a Defense
Secretary talk about this. Only the
United States of America could lead
this, only us.
But when you add the Israeli Defense
Forces, a devastatingly capable force,
the combination is sheer destruction
for our radical Islamist Iranian
adversaries.
>> He talked about the Iranians. They are
toast and they know it.
Or at least, soon enough, they will know
it.
We are punching
>> punching them while they're down.
Which is exactly how it should be. I
mean these are all kind of phrases you
know that you know they're trying to
deflect the ugliness of conflict and
underscore kind of the glorification of
their victory so far without really
addressing some of the harder subjects
like where does this all end?
You know that's the question we still
haven't heard from Trump. We don't know
what the ultimate end game here is. And
what does that tell you or what should
that tell us about the nature of this
conflict and the people who are behind
it? Well certainly it talks about that
at the senior most levels at least at
the civilian ranks of the Pentagon
they're all in on this fight.
That seems to be the atmosphere that's
cresting at the Pentagon and to some
extent at the White House at least it
was going into [music] this conflict.
Now again maybe 10 days after you know
some of the reality is starting to sink
in that this is not going to be as easy
as they thought it might have been and
that in the end may leave different
military legacy for the president than I
think he first envisioned when he
ordered this attack.
Well Eric,
thank you very much. We appreciate it.
Thank you.
On Monday afternoon President Trump sent
his latest conflicting messages about
the duration of [music] the war.
In an interview with CBS he said that
the conflict could be nearing an end.
That remark sent the price of oil
plunging.
But shortly after
Trump told lawmakers in Florida that his
timetable for ending the conflict was
open-ended. We've already won in many
ways but we haven't won enough.
We go forward more determined than ever
to achieve ultimate victory that will
end this long running danger once and
for all. years.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
On Monday, the AI company Anthropic sued
the Department of Defense saying that
the government's punishment of the
company exceeded its legal authority.
>> [music]
>> The Defense Department labeled Anthropic
a supply chain risk and cut off its
access to the military [music] after
Anthropic disagreed with how the Defense
Department should use AI.
In its lawsuit, Anthropic accused the
government of trying to penalize [music]
the company for simply expressing its
views.
And [music]
Both defendants have admitted that they
acted on Saturday because of ISIS.
Federal prosecutors have charged two men
with attempting [music] to support the
Islamic State after they tried to
detonate two explosive devices near the
[music] official residence of New York
City's mayor, Zoran Mondani.
Police said that one of the men, [music]
Ibrahim Kayumi, declared his allegiance
to ISIS after his arrest. As Kayumi was
[music] being placed into an NYPD
vehicle following his arrest, a person
in the crowd asked why he had done this.
Kayumi responded with ISIS.
Neither of the explosive devices [music]
detonated and no one was injured, but
one of the devices tested positive for a
highly volatile material used in
numerous terrorist [music] attacks over
the past decade.
Today's episode was produced [music] by
Eric Krupke, Rochelle Banja, and Mary
Wilson.
It was edited by Paige Cowen and Liz
[music] Obelen.
Contains music by Marion Lozano and Dan
Powell.
Our theme music [music] is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
>> [music]
[music]
>> That's it for The Daily.
I'm Michael Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.